---
layout: post
title: Paper - Combining flux and energy balance analysis to model large-scale biochemical networks
category: Paper
tags: Paper, Science, Project, math_bio, Qian
keywords: math_bio, energy, network, Qian
description: paper
---

Heuett, W. J. & Qian, H. Combining flux and energy balance analysis to model large-scale biochemical networks. J Bioinform Comput Biol 4, 1227-1243 (2006)


Stoichiometric Network Theory is a constraints-based, optimization approach for quantitative analysis of the phenotypes of large-scale biochemical networks that avoids the use of detailed kinetics. This approach uses the reaction stoichiometric matrix in conjunction with constraints provided by flux balance and energy balance to guarantee mass conserved and thermodynamically allowable predictions. However, the flux and energy balance constraints have not been effectively applied simultaneously on the genome scale because optimization under the combined constraints is non-linear. In this paper, a sequential quadratic programming algorithm that solves the non-linear optimization problem is introduced. A simple example and the system of fermentation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae are used to illustrate the new method. The algorithm allows the use of non-linear objective functions. As a result, we suggest a novel optimization with respect to the heat dissipation rate of a system. We also emphasize the importance of incorporating interactions between a model network and its surroundings.

<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17245812>